So what's redux
and as I mentioned, only a brief refresher will be given,
I don't give you a detailed walk through through redux in this course,
there are other courses like my react complete guide which do that,
so let's quickly refresh the basics.
Redux is all about having some central store that manages your application state,
the idea behind that is that you don't have to split up your state over multiple containers or pieces
of your application, that you don't have to manage it in your react components.
Now in our demo application thus far, we really only have one place where we manage our central state but
as this application grows, we would run into the issue of having to manage it in different places and that's
always something which can get cumbersome and hard to maintain,
hence the idea of redux to have a central place where you do it. You still have your own components
of course and these components do want to manipulate the state or want to get the latest state, that's an
alternative.
Let's start with manipulating it,
how do components manipulate our central store?
They don't reach out directly to it,
it's not like the central store is a javascript object which we just change,
instead we have a clearly defined process because redux is like a mini framework.
It's a separate javascript package,
you can use it in any javascript project and it has a clearly defined way of managing data and changing
it.
So the way to manipulate this state is to dispatch an action,
actions are like messages we send to the store, messages where we say hey I want to do something to the
store, I want to add a new to-do to our to-do list, something like that.
So actions are predefined information packages,
possibly also with a payload,
so not just a message, I want to do something but also some data which you need to attach to the message,
like I want to add a new to do,
here is the content of it.
These actions still don't directly manipulate the store,
instead we have some central manipulation agencies, something like that you could call it, we reach our
reducers and I'm saying reducers here even though technically there's only one route reducer in a redux
app but we can combine multiple reducers into that root reducer.
The idea behind a reducer is that it receives the actions and then updates the state and it does that
by running a pure synchronous function where you don't have any side effects,
side effects would be things like reaching out to the web, sending an Ajax request or loading a different
page,
none of that happens in a reducer. A reducer is all about getting a message, getting an action and then manipulating
your central store, it updates the central store. Whenever the central store updates, it triggers some
automatic subscriptions
and that's where you can close the circle. Your component can connect or can subscribe to your store,
can hook into this these automatic subscription so to say and it will then receive the update.
That's the idea of redux with a pattern which consists of actions and reducers and also the subscriptions,
now when combining it with react, we have a helpful package, another library which makes this connection
very easy, so that we don't have to do the heavy lifting of subscribing.
That's exactly what I will show you,
I will show you how to connect redux to your react native app.
So with that out of the way, let's add redux to our demo app.